.TH COREMETRICS 1 "2026" "0.2.17" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
coremetrics \- cross-platform desktop system metrics monitor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B coremetrics
[\fB--sparklines\fR]
[\fB--tree\fR]
[\fB--filter\fR \fIPATTERN\fR]
[\fB--poll-ms\fR \fIN\fR]
[\fB--duration\fR \fISECONDS\fR]
[\fB--screenshot\fR \fIPATH\fR [system|processes]]
[\fB--export-csv\fR \fIPATH\fR]
[\fB--export-json\fR \fIPATH\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B coremetrics
is a real-time system monitor (CPU, RAM, GPU, processes) built on a from-scratch
C++23 GUI toolkit over raw SDL3 pixel surfaces. Three native metrics backends are
selected at compile time: /proc on Linux, Mach and IOKit on macOS, PDH and
Toolhelp on Windows.
.PP
By default
.B coremetrics
opens a windowed UI that polls the host every 500 ms and renders a tabbed
dashboard. The CLI flags below pre-configure that UI, run a one-shot headless
export, or capture a single screenshot for documentation and CI.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --sparklines
Show CPU, RAM, and GPU history sparklines in the lower half of the System tab.
.TP
.B --tree
Open the Processes tab in parent/child indented tree mode instead of the flat
table. Toggleable at runtime with the
.B t
key.
.TP
.BI --filter " PATTERN"
Seed the Processes tab name filter with
.IR PATTERN .
Only processes whose command name contains the substring are shown.
.TP
.BI --poll-ms " N"
Override the default 500 ms polling cadence.
.I N
is clamped to the range [100, 10000] so the UI cannot be starved or spun.
.TP
.BI --duration " SECONDS"
Exit the live UI cleanly after
.I SECONDS
of wall-clock time. Useful for CI smoke runs and demo recordings.
.TP
.BI --screenshot " PATH " "\fR[\fBsystem\fR|\fBprocesses\fR]\fR"
Run headless: render one frame to
.I PATH
as a BMP and exit. The optional second argument picks which tab to capture;
the default is the System tab.
.TP
.BI --export-csv " PATH"
Write a one-shot CSV dump of the current process list to
.I PATH
and exit. No window is opened.
.TP
.BI --export-json " PATH"
Write a one-shot JSON dump of the current process list to
.I PATH
and exit. No window is opened.
.SH KEYBOARD
.TP
.B ?
Toggle the help overlay.
.TP
.B 1..N
Switch tab (System, Processes, and any additional tabs in build order).
.TP
.B /
Enter filter input mode on the Processes tab. Type to filter by command name.
.TP
.B t
Toggle tree mode on the Processes tab.
.TP
.B up / down
Move the selected row in the Processes table.
.TP
.B space
Select the highlighted row.
.TP
.B k
Open the signal / kill menu for the selected process.
.TP
.B 1..6
Pick a signal in the kill menu.
.TP
.B y / enter
Confirm the pending action (kill, filter commit).
.TP
.B esc
Cancel the current action, clear the filter, or dismiss an overlay.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/coremetrics/config
Persisted settings (poll-ms, sparklines toggle, active sort column).
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Open the live UI with sparklines and a seeded process filter:
.PP
.RS 4
coremetrics --sparklines --filter chrome
.RE
.PP
Capture a headless screenshot of the Processes tab for documentation:
.PP
.RS 4
coremetrics --screenshot processes.bmp processes
.RE
.PP
Dump the current process list to JSON and exit:
.PP
.RS 4
coremetrics --export-json snapshot.json
.RE
.SH AUTHOR
Sviatoslav Oleksiienko <soleksiienko1@gmail.com>
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR htop (1),
.BR top (1)
